1. Define Embedded System with the help of Microwave Owen as an example.
2. Differentiate between general purpose computers and embedded systems.
3. Give a classification of embedded systems.
4. List some applications of embedded systems.
5. Explain the various possible purposes of using and embedded system.


1. Differentiate between RISC and CISC
2. Differentiate between Microprocessor and Microcontroller
3. Explain Big Endian and Little Endian
4. Explain ASIC in details.
5. Explain PLD
6. Explain sensors and actuators.
7. Explain I2C BUS and SPI BUS
8. Explain the function of watchdog timer in details.
9. Explain Bluetooth and WIFI
10. Explain RS 232 C


3.4.1 Explain the characteristics of an embedded system.
3.4.2 Explain the operational quality attributes of an embedded system.
3.4.3 Explain the non-quality attributes of an embedded system.


1. What is an embedded system? What are the working elements of an
embedded system?
2. Explain the working of embedded system with respect to:
3.
A. Washing Machine
B. MICROWAVE Owen
Conduct case studies for working of embedded systems for the following
topics:
A. Air Conditioner
B. Automobile


1. Explain the Components involved in a printer sharing device
2. Explain Memory Map for a printer sharing device
3. Explain I/O Map for a printer sharing device
4. Explain interrupt Map for a printer sharing device


1. What are the different types of Memory?
2. What are the different types of RAM?
3. What are the different types of ROM?
4. What are the different types of Hybrid Memory?


1. What is Memory Testing? Why is it required?
2. What are common memory problems in embedded system?
3. Describe a test strategy for performing memory testing on embedded system.
Is there a specific order to perform these tests? if yes, why?
4. Describe the different types of memory testing techniques available.


1. Explain testing for non-volatile memory devices
2. Write short note on Control and status registers
3. What is a device driver?
4. What are the components of a device driver?
5. Write short note on Watch Dog Timer


1) Give Overview of 8051 family
2) What are the requirements of 8051 Microcontroller Hardware?
3) Explain Microcontroller & Embedded processors.
4) Draw Block diagram of 8051 with important I/O Pins
5) How we interface External Memory to 8051
6) Give Ports & circuits of 8051.
7) Differentiate Microprocessor & Microcontroller
8) Give Applications of 8051


Q1) Give Basics of Embedded C Program
Q2) Differentiate C & Embedded C language
Q3) Give Advantages of Embedded C
Q4) Explain Keywords used in Embedded C?
Q5) What do you mean by I/O Programming?
Q6) Write a C Program to Blink LED connected to Port 1 of 8051.
Q7) Give the Importance of Logic Operations & Their Use
Q8) Explain Data Types & Time Delay uses in 8051?



1. Explain the function of PORT 0 and PORT 3
2. Explain TMOD and TCON
3. Explain data memory interfacing.
4. List and explain factors that need to be consider while selecting
microcontroller.
5. Explain memory organization in details.
6. Explain interfacing external data memory access



1. Explain structure of embedded program with suitable example.
2. Why infinite loop is preferred in embedded system? Give example.
3. Explain Software Debugging
4. What is hardware debugging? Explain any 2 in detail.
5. What is Inline break point?
6. Explain Linker.
7. Explain locator.
8. What is compiler?


1. Explain the embedded Operating system with respect to
i) Tasks
ii) Task States
iii) Idle task
2. State & explain The Kernal in OS.
3. Explain the RTOS
4. Explain Scheduler useful in OS with respect to:
i) Scheduling Points
ii) Ready List
iii) Context Switch
5. Write a short note on Trends in Embedded industry.
6. Give the Real Time Characteristic of embedded operating system.
7. What is the process behind selection of RTOS.
8. Write note on Embedded system Development Environment – IDE.
9. Write note on Simulator & Emulator
10. Explain the phases of EDLC.


1. Write a Short note on Embedded IDE
2. What is Cross- Compilation? List the files that are generated upon cross
compilation
3. Explain the contents of .MAP file.
4. Explain the contents of .LST file.
5. Write short notes on :
I..OBJ File
II. .HEX File
III. Preprocessor Output File

1. What is EDLC? Why is it needed? What are its objectives?
2. Draw an neat labeled diagram of the phases of the EDLC and explain any
two phases in detail.


1. Write a short note on Processor Trends in Embedded Systems
2. Explain the Embedded Operating System Trends
3. Write Short notes on Embedded Development Language Trends
4. Explain Open Standards, Frameworks and alliances
5. Write short note on Bottlenecks faced by Embedded Industry


