In the context of Embedded System: An Introduction, Define Embedded System with the help of Microwave Owen as an example

In the context of Embedded System: An Introduction, Differentiate between general purpose computers and embedded systems

In the context of Embedded System: An Introduction, Give a classification of embedded systems

In the context of Embedded System: An Introduction, List some applications of embedded systems

In the context of Embedded System: An Introduction, Explain the various possible purposes of using an embedded system

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Differentiate between RISC and CISC

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Differentiate between Microprocessor and Microcontroller

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain Big Endian and Little Endian

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain ASIC in details

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain PLD

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain sensors and actuators

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain I2C BUS and SPI BUS

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain the function of watchdog timer in details

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain Bluetooth and WIFI

In the context of Core of Embedded System, Explain RS 232 C

In the context of Characteristics & Quality Attributes of Embedded Systems, Explain the characteristics of an embedded system

In the context of Characteristics & Quality Attributes of Embedded Systems, Explain the operational quality attributes of an embedded system

In the context of Characteristics & Quality Attributes of Embedded Systems, Explain the non-quality attributes of an embedded system

In the context of Embedded Systems-Application and Domain Specific, What is an embedded system? What are the working elements of an embedded system?

In the context of Embedded Systems-Application and Domain Specific, Explain the working of embedded system with respect to Washing Machine

In the context of Embedded Systems-Application and Domain Specific, Explain the working of embedded system with respect to MICROWAVE Owen

In the context of Embedded Systems-Application and Domain Specific, Conduct case studies for working of embedded systems for Air Conditioner

In the context of Embedded Systems-Application and Domain Specific, Conduct case studies for working of embedded systems for Automobile

In the context of Embedded Hardware, Explain the Components involved in a printer sharing device

In the context of Embedded Hardware, Explain Memory Map for a printer sharing device

In the context of Embedded Hardware, Explain I/O Map for a printer sharing device

In the context of Embedded Hardware, Explain interrupt Map for a printer sharing device

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory, What are the different types of Memory?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory, What are the different types of RAM?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory, What are the different types of ROM?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory, What are the different types of Hybrid Memory?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory Testing, What is Memory Testing? Why is it required?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory Testing, What are common memory problems in embedded system?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory Testing, Describe a test strategy for performing memory testing on embedded system. Is there a specific order to perform these tests? if yes, why?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Memory Testing, Describe the different types of memory testing techniques available.

In the context of Embedded Systems: Peripherals, Explain testing for non-volatile memory devices

In the context of Embedded Systems: Peripherals, Write short note on Control and status registers

In the context of Embedded Systems: Peripherals, What is a device driver?

In the context of Embedded Systems: Peripherals, What are the components of a device driver?


 
In the context of Embedded Systems: Peripherals, Write short note on Watch Dog Timer


 

In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Give Overview of 8051 family


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, What are the requirements of 8051 Microcontroller Hardware?


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Explain Microcontroller & Embedded processors.


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Draw Block diagram of 8051 with important I/O Pins


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, How we interface External Memory to 8051


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Give Ports & circuits of 8051.


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Differentiate Microprocessor & Microcontroller


 
In the context of The 8051 Microcontrollers, Give Applications of 8051


 

In the context of C-Language, Give Basics of Embedded C Program


 
In the context of C-Language, Differentiate C & Embedded C language


 
In the context of C-Language, Give Advantages of Embedded C


 
In the context of C-Language, Explain Keywords used in Embedded C?


 
In the context of C-Language, What do you mean by I/O Programming?


 
In the context of C-Language, Write a C Program to Blink LED connected to Port 1 of 8051.


 
In the context of C-Language, Give the Importance of Logic Operations & Their Use


 
In the context of C-Language, Explain Data Types & Time Delay uses in 8051?


 

In the context of Designing Embedded System with 8051 Microcontroller, Explain the function of PORT 0 and PORT 3


 
In the context of Designing Embedded System with 8051 Microcontroller, Explain TMOD and TCON


 
In the context of Designing Embedded System with 8051 Microcontroller, Explain data memory interfacing.


 
In the context of Designing Embedded System with 8051 Microcontroller, List and explain factors that need to be consider while selecting microcontroller.


 
In the context of Designing Embedded System with 8051 Microcontroller, Explain interfacing external data memory access.


 In the context of Programming Embedded System, Explain structure of embedded program with suitable example.


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, Why infinite loop is preferred in embedded system? Give example.


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, Explain Software Debugging


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, What is hardware debugging? Explain any 2 in detail.


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, What is Inline break point?


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, Explain Linker.


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, Explain locator.


 
In the context of Programming Embedded System, What is compiler?


 

In the context of Real Time Operating System, Explain the embedded Operating system with respect to i) Tasks ii) Task States iii) Idle task


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, State & explain The Kernal in OS.


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Explain the RTOS


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Explain Scheduler useful in OS with respect to: i) Scheduling Points ii) Ready List iii) Context Switch


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Write a short note on Trends in Embedded industry.


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Give the Real Time Characteristic of embedded operating system.


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, What is the process behind selection of RTOS.


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Write note on Embedded system Development Environment – IDE.


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Write note on Simulator & Emulator


 
In the context of Real Time Operating System, Explain the phases of EDLC.


 

In the context of Embedded Systems: Integrated Development Environment, Write a Short note on Embedded IDE


 
In the context of Embedded Systems: Integrated Development Environment, What is Cross- Compilation? List the files that are generated upon cross compilation


 
In the context of Embedded Systems: Integrated Development Environment, Explain the contents of .MAP file.


 
In the context of Embedded Systems: Integrated Development Environment, Explain the contents of .LST file.


 
In the context of Embedded Systems: Integrated Development Environment, Write short notes on : I..OBJ File II. .HEX File III. Preprocessor Output File


 

In the context of Embedded Development Life Cycle, What is EDLC? Why is it needed? What are its objectives?


 
In the context of Embedded Development Life Cycle, Draw a neat labeled diagram of the phases of the EDLC and explain any two phases in detail.


 

In the context of Trends in embedded systems, Write a short note on Processor Trends in Embedded Systems


 
In the context of Trends in embedded systems, Explain the Embedded Operating System Trends


 
In the context of Trends in embedded systems, Write Short notes on Embedded Development Language Trends


 
In the context of Trends in embedded systems, Explain Open Standards, Frameworks and alliances


 
In the context of Trends in embedded systems, Write short note on Bottlenecks faced by Embedded Industry
