Chapter 1: Introduction to Java Programming :-
1) Which component is used to compile, debug and execute java program?
a) JVM
b) JRE
c) JDK
d) JIT
2) Which component is responsible for converting bytecode into machine
specific code?
a) JVM
b) JRE
c) JDK
d) JIT
3) What is extension of java byte code?
a) .txt
b) .class
c) .java
d) .js
264) JRE stand for?
a) Java Runnable Environment
b) Java Runtime Environment
c) Java Runtime Extension
d) None of the above
5)____ are the reserved words in java?
a) Keywords
b) Variables
c) Identifiers
d) All of the above
6)_____ is a sequence of one and more characters?
a) Identifiers
b) Keywords
c) Variables
d) Literals


Chapter 2: Data Types :-
1) How many primitive types are there in java?
a) 5
b) 6
c) 7
d) 8
2) Size of int type in java?
a) 8 bit
b) b) 4 bit
c) 16 bit
d) d) 32 bit
3) The smallest integer type is ___ and its size is ___ bits.
a) short, 16
b) byte, 16
c) short, 8
d) byte, 8
4) which of the following is a symbol of assignment operator?
a) ==
b) =
c) !
d) ~
5) Size of double data type in java?
a) 4 byte
b) 8 byte
c) 2 byte
d) 1 byte
6) What is the range of byte data type in java?
a) - 128 to 127
b) -128 to 128
c) -127 to 128
d) -127 to 127
437) Increment operator increases value of operand by which value?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 1
d) 4
8) Which of the following is not conditional operator?
a) &&
b) ||
c) ?:
d) ~
9) What is the size of short data type in java?
a) -128 to 127
b) -32768 to 32767
c) – (231) to (231-1)
d) None of this
10) In java, byte, short, int and long all of these are ____ integers.
a) Signed
b) Unsigned
c) Both of the above
d) None of the above

Chapter 3: Control Statements :-
1) What mean by Decision control statement?
2) Explain If Else statement with suitable example.
3) Explain Nested if statement with suitable example.
4) Explain loop control statement
5) What is mean by switch control statement with example.
6) Explain loop control statement with example.

Chapter 4: Classes :-
1. Explain class in detail with suitable example.
2. Explain Methods with a Return Type with suitable example.
3. What is method overloading explain with suitable example.
4. Write a short note on abstract class.

Chapter 5: Constructors :-
1. Write a short note on constructor.
2. Explain default contractors with suitable Example.
3. Explain Parameterized constructor with suitable example.
4. Explain static keyword.
5. write a short note on garbage collection


Chapter 6: Inheritance :-
1) Explain the term used in Inheritance.
2) What are the types of Inheritance?
3) Explain multiple inheritances with satiable example.
4) Why multiple inheritances is not supported in java.
5) Write a short note on abstract class.
6) Write a Difference between abstract class and interface.

Chapter 7: Packages :-
1. Which of these keywords is used to define packages in Java?
a) pkg
b) Pkg
c) package
d) Package
2. Which of these is a mechanism for naming and visibility control of a
class and its content?
a) Object
b) Packages
c) Interfaces
d) None of the Mentioned.
3. Which of these access specifiers can be used for a class so that its
members can be accessed by a different class in the different package?
a) Public
b) Protected
c) Private
d) No Modifier
4. Which of the following is the correct way of importing an entire
package ‘pkg’?
a) import package.;
b) Import package;
c) import package.*;
d) Import package.*;
5. What is the maximum number of Java Class files that can be kept inside
a single Java Package?
a) 8
b) 64
c) 128
d) Unlimited
6. When importing a package, the Class is actually importing ____.
a) Classes or Interfaces from the package
b) Constants
c) Methods
d) None of the above

Chapter 8: Enumerations, Arrays :-
Q1. What is the need of Array ? Explain
Q2. What is Array ? Explain with Example.
Q3. What is Array ? what are the Types of Array ?
Q4. What are the Advantages of Vector Class over Java Array ?
Q5. What is vector ? Explain with Example.
Q6. Explain various methods vectors.
Q7. What is the difference between Array and Vector ?

Chapter 9: Multithreading :-
Q1. How does multithreading take place on a computer with a single
CPU?
Q2. State the advantages of multithreading.
Q3. Explain how a thread is created by extending the Thread class.
Q4. Explain Lifecycle of Thread.
Q5. Explain the need of synchronized method
Q6. List And Explain Various Methods of Thread

Chapter 10: Exceptions :-
Q1. What is an exception? Write any three actions that can be taken after
an exception occurs in a program.
Q2. Write a program to catch more than two exceptions.
Q3. Write a partial program to show the use of finally clause.
Q4. Differentiate between checked and unchecked exceptions.
Q5. Explain how you can throw an exception from a method in Java.
Q6. Write a program to create your own exception subclass that throws
exception if the sum of two integers is greater that 99.
Q7. Draw and Explain Exception class Hirerchy in detail.
Q8. Differentiate between throw and throws exceptions / Keywords.

Chapter 11: Byte Streams :-
Q1. What is stream? Differentiate between stream source and stream
destination.
Q2. Write a program for I/O operation using Buffered Input Stream and
Buffered Output Stream
Q3. Write a program using File Reader and Print Writer classes for file
handling.
Q4. Which class may be used for reading from console?
158Q5. Write a program to read the output of a file and display it on console.
Q7. What is Java Stream Explain in with example.
Q8. What is Serialization?
Q9. Explain File Reader class With Example.
Q10. Explain File Writer class With Example.
Q11. Explain File class With Example.
Q12. Explain Char Array Reader class With Example.
Q13. Explain Char Array Writer class With Example.
Q12. Explain Byte Array Input Stream class With Example.
Q13. Explain Byte Array Output Stream class With Example.

Chapter 12: Event Handling :-
1. Explain Delegation Event Model in Java
2. Explain keyadapter class defined in Java with code segment.
3. Explain mouseadapter class defined in Java with code segment.
4. Develop a frame that has three radio buttons Red, Green, Blue. On
Click of any one of them background color of the frame should change
accordingly.
5. Explain the following interfaces:
i) Key Listener ii) Mouse Listener
6. What is the use of adapter class in Java? Explain any one of the
adapter classes defined in Java.
7. Define Event Handling in Java.
8. Describe Event Handling in Java.
9. Explain Two Event Handling Mechanisms.
10. Illustrate the Delegation Event Model in Java.
11. Describe Components of Event Handling.
12. Explain steps to handle an event in java.

Chapter 13: Abstract Window Toolkit :-
1. Define Component, Panel, Canvas, Window and Frame.
2. Write a short note on checkbox and checkbox group class.
3. List various layouts in AWT and Explain Border Layout with
example.
4. Write the constructors and methods of checkbox class. Also explain
the use of checkbox group class.
5. Explain any two overloaded constructors and three methods of Label
class.
6. Write a short note on Choice and List class.
7. Write a program to display “Good Morning” in blue with font size 20
and font name Times New Roman in bold and italic.
8. Develop a frame that has three radio buttons Red, Green, Blue. On
Click of any one of them background color of the frame should change
accordingly.
9. Write aprogram to Design a AWT program to print the factorial for an
input value.
10. Design a Registration Form.
11. Explain the hierarchy of AWT components.
12. Explain any two overloaded constructors and three methods of class
Text Field.
13. What is the use of adapter class in Java? Explain any one of the
adapter classes defined in Java.
14. Create an AWT application to create a Frame with a Button named
cube, a Label and a Text Field. Click of the button should display cube
of that number in the Label.
15. Explain Choice class along with constructors in detail.

Chapter 14: Layouts :-
1. Write a program to display a content using Flow Layout.
2. What is the role of layout manager? What is the default layout of
Frame? Explain its working.
3. Write a program to display a registration page using Grid Layout.
4. Write a program to display a home page using Border Layout.
5. Write a program to display a about page using Card Layout.

